Git provides two primary ways to undo changes: reverting and resetting, each with different purposes and behaviors. Here's an explanation of both:

1. Git Revert
Purpose: Used to undo a specific commit by creating a new commit that reverses the changes introduced by the original commit.
Key Characteristics:
Does not alter the commit history. Instead, it adds a new commit that negates the effects of a previous one.
Safe for use in shared repositories since it maintains the full history.
When to Use:
When you need to undo changes already pushed to a shared branch (e.g., main or master).
When you want to preserve a clear history of all changes, including corrections.
Example:
Revert a specific commit:

git revert <commit-hash>


Revert multiple commits interactively:

git revert -n <commit-hash1> <commit-hash2>
git commit


2. Git Reset
Purpose: Moves the branch pointer to a different commit, optionally modifying the working directory and staging area.
Key Characteristics:
Alters commit history (potentially destructive if used improperly).
Three modes: --soft, --mixed, and --hard.
Reset Modes:
Soft Reset:

Moves the branch pointer but keeps changes in the staging area.

git reset --soft <commit-hash>


Use case: Reorganizing commits before creating a new commit.

Mixed Reset (Default):

Moves the branch pointer and unstages changes, leaving them in the working directory.


git reset --mixed <commit-hash>



Use case: Undoing commits but keeping changes for editing or re-staging.

Hard Reset:

Moves the branch pointer and discards changes in both the working directory and the staging area.


git reset --hard <commit-hash>



Use case: Completely discarding changes and resetting the repository to a previous state. Be cautious—data loss is possible.



Comparison of Git Revert and Git Reset
Feature	Git Revert	Git Reset
History Alteration	Does not alter history	Alters history
New Commit	Creates a new commit	Does not create a new commit
Impact	Safe for shared repositories	Risky in shared repositories
Scope	Specific commits to reverse	Entire commit history or specific commits
Use Case	Undo changes while preserving history	Undo changes, reorganize commits, or clean



Tips for Choosing:
Use revert for shared branches to maintain a transparent history.
Use reset cautiously, especially on private branches, for tasks like rewriting commit history or cleaning up changes.







